These set of plots compares different countries/regions from the same starting point (i.e., death count = 10). The goal is to be able to compare the progression of deaths over time starting from the same severity - but also provide confirmed cases, recovered cases, and case fataility/recovery rate for reference. We start with 10 deaths because there may be noise in collecting the first few deaths but believe deaths to be the most reliable and comparable measure for the severity of the disease.

These set of graphs are meant to focus on deaths (although confirmed cases and recoveries are also shown). Confirmed cases and recoveries are biased by test allocation that may or may not relate to the actual severity of the disease outbreak. We are making the assumption that deaths are a more reliable measure. Deaths are still subject to undercounting but presumably more accurately counted than actual cases and recoveries. In addition, deaths are what we are ultimately concerned with. If this disease spreads dramatically and doesn't cause a significant number of deaths (South Korea), the concern over cases may be misplaced. The measure of deaths is inclusive of a location's broad capacity to control spread, allocate medical care, and manage the outbreak of Covid-19. 

We look at the progression of the metrics through two measures: counts and days to double. Counts is self-explanatory. It is the number of cumulative cases of deaths, confirmed cases, and recovered cases that a country/region has observed over time. Case fatality rate and case recovery rate is simply the number of deaths and recoveries over the number of confirmed cases. We want to keep the total counts of deaths (and cases) low. Days to double, on the other hand, is the number of days to double for each of the metrics. Days to double gives us an idea of how rapidly these metrics are growing. The higher the number of days between doubling, the slower the rate of growth. The lower the number of days to double, the faster the rate of growth. For example, the higher the days to double the death count, the better.

Yet another Covid-19 dashboard, but why? I've been seeing all kinds of numbers being thrown around with varying interpretations of what's happening, and suggestions towards a course of action for what to do. My sense is that people come to conclusions about what to do too quickly prior to examiing the data carefully. This is an attempt at getting to clear(er) data first. 

The analysis, code, data, and contact are all in the links above. Please feel free to get in touch.

Data comes from the [JHU CSSE](https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html) group who is amazing for making this available.